feat(alert):  initial design guidance (#5)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1001-alerts-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-21
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# Alert Design Guidance

> The [alert](https://clarity.design/documentation/alert) component displays banners that demand the user's attention for important messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Design teams **should** use the [alert](https://clarity.design/documentation/alert) component to display banners that capture the user's attention for important messages. This ensures critical information is communicated effectively and promptly.```

## Guidance

### App-Level Alerts

App-level alerts support only error, warning, and info statuses.

> - **Must** be used exclusively for the global context of an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams must use app-level alerts exclusively for the global context of an application to maintain clarity and prevent confusion with local alerts.
```

> - **Must** be placed at the top of *all* content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** place alerts at the top of all content to ensure they are immediately visible to users. 
```

> - **Must not** be used to convey the success of an operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use alerts to convey the success of an operation, as this can dilute their effectiveness in communicating important information.
```

> - Alerts for communicating operation success **must** appear in context or as a notification message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** ensure that alerts for communicating operation success appear in context or as notification messages to provide clear and immediate feedback to users regarding their actions.
```

### Standard Alerts

Standard alerts support error, warning, info, and success statuses.

> - **May** use lightweight alerts in places where vertical space is scarce and information density is needed; otherwise, the default size **should** be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **may** use lightweight alerts in places where vertical space is scarce and information density is needed; otherwise, the default size should be used.
```

> - **Must** be used for messages reflecting the context of the user in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design Teams **must** ensure that alerts reflect the user's context within the application, as this helps users quickly understand the relevance of the message and take appropriate action.
```

### Lightweight Alerts

> - **Should** be used inside containers and other components and layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design Teams **should** use alerts inside containers and other components to maintain a cohesive layout and ensure that important messages are contextually relevant and easily accessible to users.
```

> - Use a success alert to deliver a static, persistent success message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams must use a success alert to deliver a static, persistent success message. This provides immediate feedback on the completion of an action, helping users understand that their task was successful.
```

> - Use an info alert to provide context-specific information to the user. Be cautious not to overuse or replace regular content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use an info alert to provide context-specific information to the user. This helps clarify actions or statuses without overwhelming the user with too much information, ensuring they remain focused on their tasks. However, it’s important to avoid overusing info alerts or replacing essential content with them, as this could lead to confusion or distraction.
```

> - Use a warning alert for messages that require the user's attention or acknowledgment but might not cause errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a warning alert for messages that require the user's attention or acknowledgment but might not cause errors. This ensures that users are appropriately notified of important information that could affect their actions without implying a critical failure.
```

- Use an error alert for errors, malfunctions, and critical issues, such as license expiration.
 
### Alert in Modals

- **Must not** use more than one alert within a modal.

### Alert in Cards

> - **Must** use concise language within the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams must use concise language within the alert. This helps ensure that users can quickly understand the message without unnecessary cognitive load.
```

> - **Must** use compact alerts to avoid focusing attention solely on the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use compact alerts to avoid focusing attention solely on the alert. This approach helps maintain user focus on the primary content while still providing necessary information without overwhelming the interface.
```

> - **Must** appear at the very top of the card to attract the user's attention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** place alerts at the very top of the card to attract the user's attention. This positioning ensures that users see critical messages immediately, reducing the risk of overlooking important information.
```

> - **Should not** use multiple alerts within the cards, as that distracts the user and dilutes the importance of the alert being displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** avoid using multiple alerts within cards, as this distracts the user and dilutes the importance of the alert being displayed. Keeping the alert singular maintains focus on the critical message, ensuring users can easily understand the most relevant information without confusion.
```

### Alert Group

> - **Must** group the alerts by type (error, warning, info, and success) and show in order of urgency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** group alerts by type (error, warning, info, and success) and display them in order of urgency. This approach helps users quickly identify the most critical issues that need their attention, facilitating more effective decision-making.
```

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-21
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# Alert Design Guidance

> The [Alert](https://clarity.design/documentation/alert) component implements banners that demand the user's attention for important messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [alert](https://clarity.design/documentation/alert) component displays banners that demand the user's attention for important messages.
```

## Guidance

> ### App Level Alerts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### App-Level Alerts
```

> App Level Alerts support only `Error`, `Warning`, and `Info` statuses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
App-level alerts support only error, warning, and info statuses.
```

- **Must** be used exclusively for the global context of an application.

> - **Must** be placed at the top of **all** content. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Must** be placed at the top of *all* content. 
```

I think we should use italics for the non-keyword.

> - **Must** NOT be used to convey the success of an operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Must not** be used to convey the success of an operation.
```

- Alerts for communicating operation success **must** appear in context or as a notification message.

### Standard Alerts

> Standard Alerts support `Error`, `Warning`, `Info`, and `Success` statuses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Standard alerts support error, warning, info, and success statuses.
```

> - **Must** use `Compact` alerts only in places where vertical space is scarce, and information density is needed; otherwise, the `default` size **should** be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **May** use lightweight alerts in places where vertical space is scarce and information density is needed; otherwise, the default size **should** be used.
```

Change "must only" language to "may" and remove inline code.

- **Must** be used for messages reflecting the context of the user in the application.

### Lightweight Alerts

- **Should** be used inside containers and other components and layouts.

> - Use a `Success` alert to deliver a static, persistent success message.
> - Use an `Info` alert to provide context-specific information to the user. Be cautious not to overuse or replace regular content.
> - Use a `Warning` alert for messages that require the user's attention or acknowledgment but might not cause errors.
> - Use an `Error` alert for errors, malfunctions, and critical issues, such as license expiration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use a success alert to deliver a static, persistent success message.
- Use an info alert to provide context-specific information to the user. Be cautious not to overuse or replace regular content.
- Use a warning alert for messages that require the user's attention or acknowledgment but might not cause errors.
- Use an error alert for errors, malfunctions, and critical issues, such as license expiration.
```

 
### Alert in Modals

> - **Must** NOT use more than one alert within a modal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Must not** use more than one alert within a modal.
```

### Alert in Cards

- **Must** use concise language within the alert.
- **Must** use compact alerts to avoid focusing attention solely on the alert.
- **Must** appear at the very top of the card to attract the user's attention.

> - **Should** NOT use multiple alerts within the cards, as that distracts the user and dilutes the importance of the alert being displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Should not** use multiple alerts within the cards, as that distracts the user and dilutes the importance of the alert being displayed.
```

### Alert Group

> **Must** group the alerts by subtype (Error, Warning, Info, Success) and show in order of urgency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Must** group the alerts by type (error, warning, info, and success) and show in order of urgency.
```

Changed "subtype" to "type" for consistency.
